It either.
So what we're going to do now is actually build a C success loading icon a simple animation like this
one you see here using keyframes.
And the reason we're going to build something like this is well there's two.
One is that you may need a loading icon into loading icons are probably the most common application
of CSSA keyframes you'll see them all the time you may or may not pay much attention to them.
It's sort of a signal that you can check out and you know go away for a moment or lose focus.
Usually I just change windows when there's a loading icon.
But if you actually pay attention to it if you inspect it it's almost always CSSA keyframe animations.
So very very common use case.
So we're going to build a simple one.
But before we do that I actually want to show you.
If you go on code pen and you search for loader you could try to load loading.
So far 27000 code penned at the time of this recording.
And you can explore a lot of these and find some really impressive things some of which will actually
include technologies that you may not be comfortable with like SPG but the majority of which you could
implement using what we've learned so far.
The only complication has to do with the math.
Sometimes you know the advanced trigonometry the curves that the animations are following.
So the actual process of creating the animation the syntax is exactly the same the same properties we've
worked with animation name animation duration.
You know at keyframes and so on.
But then the creativity is where it gets challenging.
And I think that's something I've tried to hit home a couple of times in this section but here's a quick
example that I found that has eight loaders and all of these are doable with what you know right now.
Some of them are going to be a bit more difficult to get right.
For example this one here.
You know figuring out the timing of growing and shrinking these getting it right can take some experimentation
but something like this is pretty straightforward.
You have three circles and all that you're doing is changing the opacity from 0 to 1.
You're animating that and you're doing those in a row basically keeping them in sync or same thing with
something like this here.
Except instead of animate the opacity you're transforming them up and then back down.
But we're going to focus on is a more traditional round loader but I recommend if you want to explore
some of this code the way that it's organized.
It could be a bit overwhelming but if you scroll down so every voter has it classloader and then an
ID load or dash and then a number loader Dash 1.
So if we want to see that code look for load or Dash 1 and then here's the relevant code.
And here's the relevant animation code as you can see it's not that much.
Some of them do get longer.
OK so I'll leave that for now.
It's a resource that you can look at as well as just exploring code pen.
There's so many great floating icons on here lots of fun things to be found.
But let's go to the starter code the dredge that up and build our own simple loading icon.
So the starter code just has a bit of tech appear says this page takes forever to load.
You can delete that if you don't care about it.
Everything up until all the CSSA that's currently here is irrelevant to the loading icon itself.
Let's take a look at how it works.
So it's a circle that's rotating but there's two opposing parts that are of different colors.
And then two other opposing parts that are of the same color.
So the way that this actually works it's kind of a little bit of a trick.
Not everybody knows that you can do this but you can assign different colors to the different borders.
The left right top and bottom borders of a box and then on top of that you can turn that box into a
circle using border radius.
So this is actually just a div that has two different colored borders and then two gray borders that
we then turn into a circle that we're then animating by rotating.
So let's make that div I already have it here it's called div classloader but there's nothing to see
at the moment.
So let's go ahead and style the dot loader loader class and we'll begin by giving it a border.
Just all the way around 16 pixels solid.
You could just Dougray the hex that I have is b d c three C 7 easy 3 C 7 and will give it a with which
will be 120 pixels and the height 120 pixels as well.
OK so now we have this box.
If we wanted to center it we could do.
Margin.
Auto save.
Now that's color the top and bottom.
So border top dash color the color I'm using is 1 A B C 9 C we can save.
You can see we get that teal color up top and then we can do the same thing quarter bottom dash color
and that color is 3 4 9 8 D-B and save.
OK.
So we're getting there now we need to turn it into a circle so to do that.
It's just a matter of shorter radius and we'll just set it to be 50 percent and save and look at that.
We now have a circle where two of the sides are different colors.
So now we want to animate it.
So let's define an animation and we'll just call it spin
and all we want it to do is go from zero rotation to 360 degrees.
So it's a very simple animation at 0 percent will do a transform rotate 0 degrees and just copy this
and change it to be 100 percent.
We want it to come back to 360 degrees all the way around.
So then the last step would be to assign it animation.
The name is spin.
Let's go with two seconds linear and we want it to go forever.
Infinite that that's all it took to make a simple loading icon.
So there's a bunch of other things you could do to play with this one kind of fun example is to also
change these colors as they're going around.
So I can do that now.
I'll copy this but I'm going to turn it into spin too.
Let's call it colored spin.
And rather than just having it go from zero to 100 and rotating.
We could also add in let's say 25 percent.
Let's do Forder.
Top color.
And just for demo purposes I'm going to pick an ugly obvious color like red and do the same thing for
border bottom color red.
It will look better by the end.
But first let's assign colored spin just like that.
OK.
So you can see we're getting some color change.
It's not ideal the colors that we are actually getting.
But if we duplicate this again.
And do the same thing for 50 percent
and then 75 percent
and I'm going to go get some nice colors and replace the red with these nice hex codes.
I'll be right back.
OK.
So I'm back.
I put in some hexadecimal codes rather than just using that built in red color.
It looks a little bit nicer already.
But I kind of think that the color change is happening too quickly compared to the speed of the rotation.
So what we could do is actually make two separate animations one for colored change and give that a
speed of two seconds and make another one for the rotation and give that a speed of 1 second.
As an example.
But the other thing we could do is just change the amount that we're actually rotating.
So I could instead of going to be under 60 degrees I could say we're now rotating 720 degrees which
will go twice as fast to start.
But then I can go up here.
And slow that down to four seconds.
And now that color change it's much more gradual but the rotation is still the same speed.
And if you want to get really crazy we could add in a slight scale so we can have it start at scale
1 and end at scale 1
and then halfway through
Let's have it grow just a tiny bit to scale 1.2.
There we go.
And that might be too much.
Let's try 1.1 now.
Now I do need to change this number of course to be 360 degrees for halfway through.
You can see now it continuously spins.
Hopefully that makes sense why if I have it rotate 720 degrees halfway through and 720 by the end it's
already hit 720 here so it doesn't continue to rotate and you might think I don't need that rotate there
but remember that the way that this works is that when we use transform and we estimate it we need to
be specific about every single property and that if we say transform is only scale that overrides the
existing animation.
So we need that rotate 360.
OK.
So there's our simple floating icon.
It might even bring it down a little bit.
One point 0 5 had a very slight scale cool.
So that wraps up the loading part.
If you are curious I did have this kind of jokey thing at the bottom that loads a couple seconds later
that says it actually never load.
You silly goose if you want to see how to make that.
It's very very simple.
We can just add in an age to that says it never loads.
You silly goose then Ormand do is animate that and the simplest animation we could do is faded in.
So we'll do at keyframes let's call it a appear.
Zero percent capacity is zero.
One hundred percent opacity is one.
Now we just need to go up to our restyling that H2 right here and we'll just add an animation the name
of it which is a peer.
We want it to take let's say one second to appear but we want it to have a delay.
We don't want it to happen immediately.
Let's give it a three second delay and the only other thing we need to do is set the initial state to
be opacity zero so that we don't see it.
And now wait three seconds and it appears there's only one small problem which is it also disappears
at the end onset and emission finishes.
So if you remember animation film direction we can just add in four words at the end and save it now
wait for it to happen again and never load you silly goose.
And it remains.
And if you want it to add a bit more space rather than just doing margin auto on the loader you could
just add a margin top or bottom if you want to have let's say 100 pixels.
One question you might have at this point is how do you actually stop the loader and replace it with
other content that's typically done with javascript.
There isn't really a way to do that with SS unless you want to have it on some sort of automatic timer.
So after 10 seconds it disappears you could NMD that.
But if you are actually trying to have it appear until the actual loading of some asset an image an
API call finishes then you need javascript to do that.
But most people do is set the visibility to none or displayed none of this loading icon and replace
it with whatever content is behind.
All right.
So that was fun to make and hopefully you feel like you have a good grasp of keyframes.